htmlentities -- Convert all applicable characters to HTML entities

  string htmlentities(string string [, int flags [, string charset [, bool double_encode]]])~

This function is identical to |htmlspecialchars| in all ways, except with
|htmlentities|, all characters which have HTML character entity equivalents
are translated into these entities.

If you're wanting to decode instead (the reverse) you can use
|html_entity_decode|.

{string} The input string.

{flags} A bitmask of one or more of the following flags, which specify how to
handle quotes, invalid code unit sequences and the used document type. The
default is ENT_COMPAT | ENT_HTML401. Available {flags} constants Constant Name
Description ENT_COMPAT Will convert double-quotes and leave single-quotes
alone. ENT_QUOTES Will convert both double and single quotes. ENT_NOQUOTES
Will leave both double and single quotes unconverted. ENT_IGNORE Silently
discard invalid code unit sequences instead of returning an empty string.
Added in PHP 5.3.0. This is provided for backwards compatibility; avoid using
it as it may have security implications. ENT_SUBSTITUTE Replace invalid code
unit sequences with a Unicode Replacement Character U+FFFD (UTF-8) or &#FFFD;
(otherwise) instead of returning an empty string. ENT_DISALLOWED Replace code
unit sequences, which are invalid in the specified document type, with a
Unicode Replacement Character U+FFFD (UTF-8) or &#FFFD; (otherwise).
ENT_HTML401 Handle code as HTML 4.01. ENT_XML1 Handle code as XML 1. ENT_XHTML
Handle code as XHTML. ENT_HTML5 Handle code as HTML 5.

{charset} Like |htmlspecialchars|, it takes an optional third argument
{charset} which defines character set used in conversion. Presently, the
ISO-8859-1 character set is used as the default. However, this default is very
likely to change in future versions of PHP; the programmer is highly
encouraged to specify a value.

&reference.strings.charsets; {double_encode} When {double_encode} is turned
off PHP will not encode existing html entities. The default is to convert
everything.

Returns the encoded string.

Version Description 5.4.0 The constants ENT_SUBSTITUTE, ENT_DISALLOWED,
ENT_HTML401, ENT_XML1, ENT_XHTML and ENT_HTML5 were added. 5.3.0 The constant
ENT_IGNORE was added. 5.2.3 The {double_encode} parameter was added. 4.1.0 The
{charset} parameter was added. 4.0.3 The {flags} parameter was added.

A |htmlentities| example

<?php >
  $str = "A 'quote' is <b>bold</b>";
  
  // Outputs: A 'quote' is <b>bold</b>
  echo htmlentities($str);
  
  // Outputs: A &amp;#039;quote&amp;#039; is <b>bold</b>
  echo htmlentities($str, ENT_QUOTES);
?>





Usage of ENT_IGNORE

<?php >
  $str = "\x8F!!!";
  
  // Outputs an empty string
  echo htmlentities($str, ENT_QUOTES, "UTF-8");
  
  // Outputs "!!!"
  echo htmlentities($str, ENT_QUOTES | ENT_IGNORE, "UTF-8");
?>





|html_entity_decode| |get_html_translation_table| |htmlspecialchars| |nl2br|
|urlencode|

vim:ft=help:
