mysqlnd_ms_set_user_pick_server -- Sets a callback for user-defined read/write
splitting

  bool mysqlnd_ms_set_user_pick_server(string function)~

Sets a callback for user-defined read/write splitting. The plugin will call
the callback only if pick[]=user is the default rule for server picking in the
relevant section of the plugins configuration file.

The plugins built-in read/write query split mechanism decisions can be
overwritten in two ways. The easiest way is to prepend the query string with
the SQL hints MYSQLND_MS_MASTER_SWITCH, MYSQLND_MS_SLAVE_SWITCH or
MYSQLND_MS_LAST_USED_SWITCH. Using SQL hints one can control, for example,
whether a query shall be send to the MySQL replication master server or one of
the slave servers. By help of SQL hints it is not possible to pick a certain
slave server for query execution.

Full control on server selection can be gained using a callback function. Use
of a callback is recommended to expert users only because the callback has to
cover all cases otherwise handled by the plugin.

The plugin will invoke the callback function for selecting a server from the
lists of configured master and slave servers. The callback function inspects
the query to run and picks a server for query execution by returning the hosts
URI, as found in the master and slave list.

If the lazy connections are enabled and the callback choses a slave server for
which no connection has been established so far and establishing the
connection to the slave fails, the plugin will return an error upon the next
action on the failed connection, for example, when running a query. It is the
responsibility of the application developer to handle the error. For example,
the application can re-run the query to trigger a new server selection and
callback invocation. If so, the callback must make sure to select a different
slave, or check slave availability, before returning to the plugin to prevent
an endless loop.

The function to be called. Class methods may also be invoked statically using
this function by passing array($classname, $methodname) to this parameter.
Additionally class methods of an object instance may be called by passing
array($objectinstance, $methodname) to this parameter.

Host to run the query on. The host URI is to be taken from the master and
slave connection lists passed to the callback function. If callback returns a
value neither found in the master nor in the slave connection lists the plugin
will fallback to the second pick method configured via the pick[] setting in
the plugin configuration file. If not second pick method is given, the plugin
falls back to the build-in default pick method for server selection.

vim:ft=help:
