mysqlnd_ms_get_stats -- Returns query distribution and connection statistics

  array mysqlnd_ms_get_stats()~

Returns an array of statistics collected by the replication and load balancing
plugin.

The PHP configuration setting mysqlnd_ms.collect_statistics controls the
collection of statistics. The collection of statistics is disabled by default
for performance reasons.

The scope of the statistics is the PHP process. Depending on your deployment
model a PHP process may handle one or multiple requests.

Statistics are aggregated for all connections. It is not possible to tell how
much queries originating from mysqli, PDO_MySQL or mysql API calls have
contributed to the aggregated data values.

This function has no parameters.

Returns NULL if the PHP configuration directive mysqlnd_ms.enable has disabled
the plugin. Otherwise, returns array of statistics.

Array of statistics

The semantics of this statistic has changed between 1.0.1 - 1.1.0.

The meaning for version 1.0.1 is as follows. Number of statements considered
as read-only by the built-in query analyzer. Neither statements which begin
with a SQL hint to force use of slave nor statements directed to a slave by an
user-defined callback are included. The total number of statements sent to the
slaves is use_slave + use_slave_sql_hint + use_slave_callback.

PECL/mysqlnd_ms 1.1.0 introduces a new concept of chained filters. The
statictics is now set by the internal load balancing filter. With version
1.1.0 the load balancing filter is always the last in the filter chain, if
used. In future versions a load balancing filter may be followed by other
filters causing another change in the meaning of the statistic. If, in the
future, a load balancing filter is followed by another filter it is no longer
guaranteed that the satement, whichs increments use_slave, will be executed on
the slaves.

The meaning for version 1.1.0 is as follows. Number of statements sent to the
slaves. Statements directed to a slave by the user filter (an user-defined
callback) are not included. The latter are counted by use_slave_callback.

The semantics of this statistic has changed between 1.0.1 - 1.1.0.

The meaning for version 1.0.1 is as follows. Number of statements not
considered as read-only by the built-in query analyzer. Neither statements
which begin with a SQL hint to force use of master nor statements directed to
a master by an user-defined callback are included. The total number of
statements sent to the master is use_master + use_master_sql_hint +
use_master_callback.

PECL/mysqlnd_ms 1.1.0 introduces a new concept of chained filters. The
statictics is now set by the internal load balancing filter. With version
1.1.0 the load balancing filter is always the last in the filter chain, if
used. In future versions a load balancing filter may be followed by other
filters causing another change in the meaning of the statistic. If, in the
future, a load balancing filter is followed by another filter it is no longer
guaranteed that the satement, whichs increments use_master, will be executed
on the slaves.

The meaning for version 1.1.0 is as follows. Number of statements sent to the
masters. Statements directed to a master by the user filter (an user-defined
callback) are not included. The latter are counted by use_master_callback.

|mysqlnd_ms_get_stats| example

<?php >
  printf("mysqlnd_ms.enable = %d\n", ini_get("mysqlnd_ms.enable"));
  printf("mysqlnd_ms.collect_statistics = %d\n", ini_get("mysqlnd_ms.collect_statistics"));
  var_dump(mysqlnd_ms_get_stats());
?>

The above example will output:

  mysqlnd_ms.enable = 1
  mysqlnd_ms.collect_statistics = 1
  array(20) {
    ["use_slave"]=>
    string(1) "0"
    ["use_master"]=>
    string(1) "0"
    ["use_slave_guess"]=>
    string(1) "0"
    ["use_master_guess"]=>
    string(1) "0"
    ["use_slave_sql_hint"]=>
    string(1) "0"
    ["use_master_sql_hint"]=>
    string(1) "0"
    ["use_last_used_sql_hint"]=>
    string(1) "0"
    ["use_slave_callback"]=>
    string(1) "0"
    ["use_master_callback"]=>
    string(1) "0"
    ["non_lazy_connections_slave_success"]=>
    string(1) "0"
    ["non_lazy_connections_slave_failure"]=>
    string(1) "0"
    ["non_lazy_connections_master_success"]=>
    string(1) "0"
    ["non_lazy_connections_master_failure"]=>
    string(1) "0"
    ["lazy_connections_slave_success"]=>
    string(1) "0"
    ["lazy_connections_slave_failure"]=>
    string(1) "0"
    ["lazy_connections_master_success"]=>
    string(1) "0"
    ["lazy_connections_master_failure"]=>
    string(1) "0"
    ["trx_autocommit_on"]=>
    string(1) "0"
    ["trx_autocommit_off"]=>
    string(1) "0"
    ["trx_master_forced"]=>
    string(1) "0"
  }



Runtime configuration mysqlnd_ms.collect_statistics mysqlnd_ms.enable

vim:ft=help:
